README.md, before:

## excel-parser-uploader

Data parser and uploader to Firestore of an excel file.

This is similar to [csv-parser-uploader](https://github.com/ciatph/csv-parser-uploader) but processes excel files.

### Requirements

The following requirements were used for this project. Feel free to use other dependencies and versions as needed.

1. Windows 10 OS
2. nvm for Windows v1.1.9
3. NodeJS 16.14.2 installed using nvm
   - node v16.14.2
   - npm v8.5.0

## Notes

- The bullet list symbols: `●`, `•` and a dash `-` can be used interchangeably per main item group (same for a single cell, but can differ across rows and columns).
- Expect the excel bullet text to be riddled with special characters (newlines, tabs and others).
- The script should be able to handle and convert mixed cases of unconventional and regular bullet-list formatting in all excel cells to HTML tags.The bullet list (per excel cell) can contain formats:

### Messy Format 1

Sub item is in the same line as the main ordered item.

```
1. main item 1 ● sub item 1
     ● sub item 2
     ● sub item 3

2. main item 2
     ● sub item 1
     ● sub item 2
     ● sub item 3
```

### Messy Format 2

Sub item is in the same line as the unordered main item.

```
● main item 1 ● main item 2
● main item 3
● main item 4
```

### Messy Format 3 (Uses a dash symbol)

Sub item is in the same line as the unordered main item.

```
● main item 1
   - sub item 1
   - sub item 2
   - sub item 3
● main item 2
   - sub item 1
   - sub item 2
● main item 3
● main item 4
```

### Conventional Format 1 (Number and bullets)

```
1. main item 1
     ● sub item 1
     ● sub item 2
     ● sub item 3
```

### Conventional Format 2 (All bullets)

```
● main item 1
● main item 2
● main item 3
```

### Conventional Format 3 (Number and bullets, starts with a bullet)

```
● main item
     1. sub item 2
     2. sub item 3

● main item 2
     1. sub item 1
     2. sub item 2
     3. sub item 3
```


## Installation

1. Clone this repository.<br>
`git clone https://github.com/ciatph/excel-parser-uploader.git`

2. Install dependencies.<br>
`npm install`

3. Create a `.env` file from the `.env.example` file. Replace `EXCEL_FILENAME` with a target excel file's filename relative to the `/src/01_recommendations` directory.

   | Variable Name        | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
   | -------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
   | EXCEL_FILENAME       | Excel file name relative to the `/src/01_recommendations` scripts  directory                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
   | CSV_FILENAME         | CSV file name relative to the `/src/02_crop_calendar` scripts                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
   | FIREBASE_SERVICE_ACC | The project's private key file contents, condensed into one line and minus all whitespace characters.<br><br>The service account JSON file is generated from the Firebase project's **Project Settings** page, on **Project Settings** -> **Service accounts** -> **Generate new private key** |
   | FIREBASE_PRIVATE_KEY | The `private_key` entry from the service account JSON file.<br> <blockquote>**NOTE:** Take note to make sure that the value starts and ends with a double-quote on WINDOWS OS localhost. Some systems may or may not require the double-quotes (i.e., Ubuntu).</blockquote>                    |

## Available scripts

### `npm run lint`

Check source codes for lint errors.

### `npm run lint:fix`

Fix lint errors.

### `npm run process:recommendations`

Normalize an  excel file into an array of simple JS objects with columns containing messy HTML tags bullet lists.

### `npm run process:calendar`

Normalize and upload the new cropping calendar data.

### `npm run process:details`

Normalize and upload the new municipalities and other details attached to the crop recommendations.

### `npm run find:mismatching`

Writes a list of municipalities from the cropping calendar that have mismatching names from the 10-day weather forecast excel file into a `municipalities.csv` CSV file.

@ciatph<br>
20221205

Commit message:

feat: Add an option to replace recommendations text with random words, #25

README.md, after:

## excel-parser-uploader

Data parser and uploader to Firestore of an excel file.

This is similar to [csv-parser-uploader](https://github.com/ciatph/csv-parser-uploader) but processes excel files.

### Requirements

The following requirements were used for this project. Feel free to use other dependencies and versions as needed.

1. Windows 10 OS
2. nvm for Windows v1.1.9
3. NodeJS 16.14.2 installed using nvm
   - node v16.14.2
   - npm v8.5.0

## Notes

- The bullet list symbols: `●`, `•` and a dash `-` can be used interchangeably per main item group (same for a single cell, but can differ across rows and columns).
- Expect the excel bullet text to be riddled with special characters (newlines, tabs and others).
- The script should be able to handle and convert mixed cases of unconventional and regular bullet-list formatting in all excel cells to HTML tags.The bullet list (per excel cell) can contain formats:

### Messy Format 1

Sub item is in the same line as the main ordered item.

```
1. main item 1 ● sub item 1
     ● sub item 2
     ● sub item 3

2. main item 2
     ● sub item 1
     ● sub item 2
     ● sub item 3
```

### Messy Format 2

Sub item is in the same line as the unordered main item.

```
● main item 1 ● main item 2
● main item 3
● main item 4
```

### Messy Format 3 (Uses a dash symbol)

Sub item is in the same line as the unordered main item.

```
● main item 1
   - sub item 1
   - sub item 2
   - sub item 3
● main item 2
   - sub item 1
   - sub item 2
● main item 3
● main item 4
```

### Conventional Format 1 (Number and bullets)

```
1. main item 1
     ● sub item 1
     ● sub item 2
     ● sub item 3
```

### Conventional Format 2 (All bullets)

```
● main item 1
● main item 2
● main item 3
```

### Conventional Format 3 (Number and bullets, starts with a bullet)

```
● main item
     1. sub item 2
     2. sub item 3

● main item 2
     1. sub item 1
     2. sub item 2
     3. sub item 3
```


## Installation

1. Clone this repository.<br>
`git clone https://github.com/ciatph/excel-parser-uploader.git`

2. Install dependencies.<br>
`npm install`

3. Create a `.env` file from the `.env.example` file. Replace `EXCEL_FILENAME` with a target excel file's filename relative to the `/src/01_recommendations` directory.

   | Variable Name        | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
   | -------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
   | EXCEL_FILENAME       | Excel file name relative to the `/src/01_recommendations` scripts  directory                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
   | CSV_FILENAME         | CSV file name relative to the `/src/02_crop_calendar` scripts                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
   | USE_RANDOM_WORDS     | If `1`, replace crop recommendations text with random non-English words. Default value is `0`.                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
   | FIREBASE_SERVICE_ACC | The project's private key file contents, condensed into one line and minus all whitespace characters.<br><br>The service account JSON file is generated from the Firebase project's **Project Settings** page, on **Project Settings** -> **Service accounts** -> **Generate new private key** |
   | FIREBASE_PRIVATE_KEY | The `private_key` entry from the service account JSON file.<br> <blockquote>**NOTE:** Take note to make sure that the value starts and ends with a double-quote on WINDOWS OS localhost. Some systems may or may not require the double-quotes (i.e., Ubuntu).</blockquote>                    |

## Available scripts

### `npm run lint`

Check source codes for lint errors.

### `npm run lint:fix`

Fix lint errors.

### `npm run process:recommendations`

Normalize an  excel file into an array of simple JS objects with columns containing messy HTML tags bullet lists.

### `npm run process:calendar`

Normalize and upload the new cropping calendar data.

### `npm run process:details`

Normalize and upload the new municipalities and other details attached to the crop recommendations.

### `npm run find:mismatching`

Writes a list of municipalities from the cropping calendar that have mismatching names from the 10-day weather forecast excel file into a `municipalities.csv` CSV file.

@ciatph<br>
20221205
